Do not reset pto_count on Initial ACKs (#3551)
quicwg/base-drafts: draft-ietf-quic-recovery.md

has the keys to process an acknowledgement.

When a PTO timer expires, the PTO period MUST be set to twice its current
value. The PTO period is set back to the original value upon receiving an
acknowledgement for a non-Initial packet. The PTO timer is not decreased when

> the client receives an Initial ACK to ensure the client's anti-deadlock timer

Reviewer: How about changing the text to something like: _The PTO period is set back to the original value when receiving an acknowledgement, if the endpoint knows that the peer has completed address validation. The PTO timer is not decreased while the peer is validating the address, to ensure the endpoint's anti-deadlock timer does not fire..._

I think that is our intent.

Author: Agreed, accepted with some small editorial changes.

expiration before it has the keys to process an acknowledgement.

When a PTO timer expires, the PTO period MUST be set to twice its current

> value.  The PTO period is reset based on the latest rtt information when

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
value.  The PTO period is set based on the latest RTT information when
```

receiving an acknowledgement if the peer has completed address validation.

> The PTO timer is not decreased while the peer is validating the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The PTO backoff is not decreased even on receiving an
acknowledgement as long as the peer is validating this endpoint's
```

> address, to ensure the endpoint's anti-deadlock timer does not fire too
> aggressively when the server does not yet have handshake data to send.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
address. Doing so ensures that the endpoint's anti-deadlock timer is not 
set too aggressively when the server seems to be slow in responding with
handshake data.
```

Author: Taken with a small tweak.

    OnPacketAcked(acked_packet.packet_number, pn_space)

  DetectLostPackets(pn_space)
  // Reset pto_count, unless the client receives an Initial ACK

>   if (endpoint is server || pn_space != Initial)

Reviewer: Shouldn't we better invoke `PeerCompletedAddressValidation()`?

Author: Done.

    OnPacketsLost(lost_packets)
  OnPacketsAcked(newly_acked_packets)

  // Reset pto_count unless the server has not yet
  // validated the client's address.
  if (PeerCompletedAddressValidation()):
    pto_count = 0

>   SetLossDetectionTimer()

Reviewer 2: Should this also be done only when pto_count is set to 0? Why restart the timer here if the pto_count hasn't changed?

Author: A new RTT measurement is available, so the alarm value should always be updated.
